Starting her high school career, Mio decides to join her school's Literature Club until she is stopped by her childhood friend, Ritsu, who wants to join the Light Music Club. Mio's objection is quickly rejected by Ritsu who simply rips the club application form in half before she drags her to the faculty office. Arrived there, they are informed by the music teacher Ms. Sawako Yamanaka that the club has no members left and becomes dissolved unless at least four students join by the end of the month.

Satisfied, Mio heads to join the Literature Club for real but is stopped by Ritsu once again who is thrilled by the idea of becoming the club's president if she joins it first. Eventually, another girl named Tsumugi shows up who would like to observe the Choir Club. Ritsu pushes her to join the Light Music Club instead but is stopped by Mio who prepares to leave the club once and for all.

On her way, Ritsu yells at her and reminds her at the old promise the two made, forming a band together. However, the short emotional moment is destroyed instantly by Ritsu again who starts to crack jokes about their earnings once they become professionals. The whole scene seems to be so funny for Tsumugi that she decides to join too. With already three members and the line-up of a drummer, a bassist and a keyboardist, Ritsu enthusiastically declares that all they need now is somebody who plays guitar.

At the same moment somewhere else, a girl named Yui Hirasawa looks up while sitting in front of her club application form.

Thinking about which club she should join, Yui is approached by her childhood friend Nodoka who scolds her for her slowness, worrying that she might end up as a NEET at this rate.

Daunted by that thought, Yui decides to join the school's Light Music Club, even though she has no clue what it is about. After informing Nodoka about it, the two read the club's advertisement, discussing Yui's role in it since the club apparently needs a guitarist. Yui nervously proposes playing castanets instead to which Nodoka ironically replies that those might suit her perfectly.

After school, Yui approaches the school's music room with the intention to tell the club members that she wants to quit already. Getting more and more nervous by the thought of the members being scary, violent persons, she is startled by Ritsu who spotted her earlier. Ritsu recognises Yui as the new member and happily drags her inside of the club room where she is greeted by the other two members, Mio and Tsumugi.

While drinking Mugi's tea, the three members tell Yui that the club would have been disbanded if she would not have joined which makes it more difficult for Yui to quit. She eventually does however, which is unsurprisingly shocking for the others to hear. As a last resort to convince Yui to stay, the tree members take their instruments and start playing for her. Yui, amazed by the performance, bluntly states that although they aren't good at all, they still looked like they had fun and that she wants to be part of it too. As the joining is secured, Ritsu, Mio and Mugi convince Yui to start playing guitar as well.

The next day, Yui surprises Nodoka with her story and states that she is going to buy a new guitar for 5000 Yen which is a ludicrous underestimation, leading Nodoka to greatly worry about the club's future.

Nodoka approaches Yui after school has ended, asking to go home together. Yui has to decline because she is now a member of the school's Light Music Club and has to go there instead. Nodoka senses a change in Yui which makes her both happy and sad at the same time. Yui, however, only thinks about eating sweets which shocks Nodoka. Inside of the club, Yui introduces the other three members.

The bassist, Mio Akiyama, is described as a tall, cool and mature person but it turns out that she is extremely sensitive too as she faints while thinking about being a guitarist and hence more in the spotlight.

The keyboardist, Tsumugi Kotobuki, is described as gentle, soft and cute by Yui. It is revealed shortly after that she is a fairly skilled composer and that she comes from a very rich family which allows her to bring lavish sweets and tea to school every day.

The drummer, Ritsu Tainaka, is described as being exuberant and cheerful. Yui asks her why she picked the drums of all instruments to which Ritsu replies that the mere thought of the complicated finger movements other instruments require is enough to make her sick.

Yui comes to the conclusion that the choice of an instrument is enough to show a person's character. After learning more about the members, Mio asks Yui about the guitar she is supposed to play in the club which Yui totally forgot. The information about a guitar's cost greatly daunts her but she nevertheless meets with the others the next day to buy one. Since her mother gave her an advance, she is ready to buy a new guitar under the condition of being more sparingly for the next time, something Ritsu has to help her with instantly after going into the shopping mall. Arrived at the music store, Yui is amazed by the arrangement of instruments but is also confused about a twin-neck guitar.

While Mio explains to her the criteria to regard when buying a guitar, Yui completely ignores her and lays and eye on one that looks "cute" instead. The guitar however turns out to be way too expensive for Yui until Mugi approaches a clerk, asking for a discount. The clerk recognizes her as the daughter of the shop's president and lowers the price so Yui can buy the guitar. With the guitar in Yui's possession, she heads home to loudly admire it until her sister, Ui, tells her to be quiet already.

The next day, Ui attempts to wake Yui up and surprisedly discovers that she slept with her guitar together.

Yui proudly presents her new guitar inside of the Light Music Club's room. The other members, Mio, Ritsu and Tsumugi delightedly applaud and ask for a short demonstration.

Yui's talent however is far under their expectations. Yui explains how she cherishes her guitar instead of playing it, leading Ritsu to scold her. As Mio notices that Yui hasn't taken the protective film off the guitar either, it gets ripped off by Ritsu which depresses Yui. Ritsu apologizes to her by giving her Mugi's new sweets which instantly brightens Yui up. With her new resolve, she thanks Ritsu for paving the road for her, to which Ritsu begins to applaud herself even more, leading Mio to hit her with her elbow.

Yui asks Mugi about the sweets she brings everyday and is once again greatly amazed by her family's wealth. She then asks how she can get the sounds bands have when being on stage. Mio shows her their guitar amplifier and Yui plugs her guitar in, amazed by the powerful sound her guitar makes now. Since she still can't play anything outstanding, she decides to unplug her guitar again. Mio tries to stop her since the volume is still turned up but is too slow. As Yui unplugs her guitar, she gets nearly blown away by the contorted sound. After practicing a bit more, she notes that guitar strings are pretty scary since they could cut her fingers anytime, leading Ritsu to try to scare her with painful stories. However, the story did not scare Yui but Mio instead. Mio explains to Yui that the fingers will eventually become callused which reduces the likeliness to get injured.

As proof, she shows her own fingertips which are enthusiastically squeezed by Yui for so long that it eventually gets embarrassing for Mio. Yui then asks where to start with her practice, to which Mio shows her a book with chords. Yui quickly learns that she can't read music either which shocks Mio once more. On her way back home, she is approached by Nodoka who is greeted by Yui with a chord. To the question where she was all the time, Nodoka replies that she was studying for the forthcoming midterm tests. After some seconds, Yui grasp the statement, shocked about the tests that lie in front of them. Daunted, she laments that she has to learn now instead of playing guitar to which Nodoka reminds her that she never learned for a test anyway.

Yui, full of confidence again states that she will be fine this time as well which Nodoka negates.

The Sakuragaoka High School students have to write midterm exams. After the results are out, the members of the Light Music Club lament how much harder the tests were compared with what they had to deal with during Junior High.

Mio draws the attention to Yui who looks pretty depressed which is because she failed her test as the only student of her class with mere twelve points. Tsumugi and Ritsu try to cheer her up until Yui reveals that she did not learn at all for the test since she only practiced playing guitar. On the other hand, she is now able to play most of the chords, something that is both remarkable and disputable according to Mio. Yui then asks Ritsu about her grade which are impressive eighty-nine points, a fact that shocks Yui since she thought that Ritsu would be on the same level she is. Ritsu, angered by that assumption starts bragging until Mio reveals that Ritsu needed her help to pass the test, proving Yui's presumption.

Yui then reveals that she is not allowed to participate in the club's activities until she passes the make-up test, leading Ritsu to ask her in shock if she is alright staying with them at the moment. Yui answers that she only came to eat snacks, a statement that leads Ritsu to choke her. In despair about her situation, Yui asks Mio to help her study for the test. Mio agrees and Ritsu promises that Yui will pass definitely if Mio teaches her. At the Hirasawa household, the group meets Yui's younger sister, Ui, for the first time. Ui leaves an impressive impression and the group wonders how the younger sister could be so much more mature than the older one. As the study session starts, Ritsu gets bored and goofes around until she is silenced by Mio. After Ritsu startled Yui again, she gets thrown out of the room.

Thirty minutes after they began studying, Yui loses all her energy. Mugi however can stimulate her with the promise to eat cake together after they finished studying. Eventually, the three came to an end with Yui seemingly being able to pass the make-up test now. As Mio and Mugi want to head home, they see Ritsu casually playing video games with Ui. After some time, the results for the make-up tests are announced. Yui enters the club room with an traumatized look on her face which greatly worries Mio. However, Yui got the best score possible, one hundred points, relieving the rest.

After Yui thanked her friends, Mio and Mugi presume that it will now take some time to get her playing the guitar again.

The members of the Light Music Club are at the sea. Ritsu and Yui are hyped up about their trip unlike Mio who scolds them.

During a flashback, it is shown that Mio came up with the idea of having a training camp to improve their musical skills. Ritsu and Yui were just focused on having fun, although Mio intended to have the training camp so that their club is ready for the school festival after the summer break, where she plans to have a performance with the others together.

Ritsu started teasing Mio until she got hit by her while Tsumugi calmed Mio down. Ritsu and Yui then started nagging since they weren't willing to spend much money for the trip. Mio asked Mugi if she has a villa where they could spend their time which Mugi affirmed, much to the surprise of the others. Arrived at the villa, they are shocked about how big it is although Mugi mentions that she wanted to get a bigger one since this is the smallest of them. Ritsu and Yui instantly prepare to have fun at the sea and since she got left behind, Mio follows them under tears as well. While playing at the beach, Ritsu notices Mio's large bust and hits her with her beach ball out of envy. As time goes by, Mio forgets her true intention and has even more fun as the others, a fact that shocks her afterwards. Inside of the house, they notice that they have impressive equipment to play music. However, Ritsu is too tired for it and wants to sleep until Mio tricks her into playing by saying that Ritsu might have gained some weight since she wasn't playing the drums much lately. After playing, Mugi praises Yui's improvements in playing guitar.

Mio states that she would be perfect once she learns finer techniques like sliding or choking, leading Ritsu to put Yui in a chokehold. Mio explains Yui the real thing and after Yui got it right for the first time, she started laughing about the pitched sound. After a short while, Yui got tired since her guitar is rather heavy, leading her to ask about the culprit who told her to buy such a heavy guitar, to which Mio replies that it was Yui herself. After the training, the four take a bath outside. Mio and Mugi are satisfied with the results, noticing that they shouldn't have worried so much, leading Ritsu to scold them since they could have played more at this rate.